a big hello from raleigh north carolina
welcome to another episode of b2b
marketing and more
this podcast and the youtube channel is
all about b2b marketing from domain jn
sales enablement down to a career
development of a b2b marketer so
subscribe and comment as you wish
today i have a special guest amy higgins
who is the director of a content
strategy from salesforce she's also a
very good friend hello amy
oh my god pam i love you so much you're
so energetic i just wish you could cross
and like give you a big old hug
all right virtual hog virtual
[Laughter]
so i mean given that you are director of
a content strategy what i want to talk
about today is really about editorial
and also content planning
and giving that you are managing the
editorial planning in enterprise
can you talk to us
how is that different than just managing
like the typical editorial planning in a
normal company first of all define
normal because nothing is normal oh yeah
that's a good point but what about
marketing team of 10 15 people or even
small size company and they have a
marketing team of five people and they
do always have somebody manage the
content but giving that the size of the
company is smaller or the product is
homogeneous the scope of content
planning tends to be manageable but in a
global enterprise that's a completely
different story so can you talk to us
from that perspective so i would say
how you go about it is always the same
but the number of people that are
involved is what scales or contracts
got it so with an enterprise company you
might have those five people who are
very very close
to the product but then add on the other
five
who are adjacent to the product and then
add another five who come from
and then add another fight and you get
where i'm going with this right i will
another thing you have too many cooks in
the kitchen
yeah i get that always a lot of cooks in
the kitchen but the thing is is it's
like a i don't know have you ever been
to one of those really good restaurants
that has like a dessert cook
and then they have
like the amuse bouche cook
every single cook brings something
different to the table
so it's good to have all those cooks in
the kitchen but you do have to allow
time for it
so
and you do have to know what each cook
is coming to the table with that's
actually a very good analogy it's
basically you have a lot of cooks in the
kitchen
and they all have something they can
bring on the table they probably also
have something like you're like we don't
need that so you have to know
in terms of what you would like to get
from the cooks
and you also have to somehow manage the
cook's expectation is that right yeah
the time you need to take time to
actually do that does that impact your
editorial planning like if you work for
smaller company you know five people you
probably can plan your next quarters
topics pretty much in two meetings but
in enterprise you probably have to do
more meetings and get everybody's
feedback and that kind of things is that
correct
correct but i would take it a step
further that it might not be like 20
meetings it might still be two meetings
with a lot of work in between yeah and
then you can do a lot of work
asynchronously either through
collaboration docs or collaboration
tools like slack so basically have your
tools in place when you have many cooks
in the kitchen not just managing your
expectations but also have a touring
process it doesn't matter it's meetings
or just getting their instant feedback
have that tool in place to be able to
solicit the feedback and also understand
where they come from and you can
determine what you want to take or what
not and if we continue this same analogy
about cooks in the kitchen
you also have to think about how large
are your audience appetites oh
i like that
in one meal
and so if you've got
20 different cooks with 20 different
dishes pam if we were going to maples in
cleveland
you could probably eat 20 ribs you would
be down four oh yeah oh my god i'm such
a good eater you know that
[Laughter]
ribs pam done
but
a lot of people they might just want a
couple of ribs and some greens and some
cornbread yeah you have to kind of
understand that mix
of what your audience wants and how much
they can consume at any given time how
does that help in terms of create your
editorial do you manage your editorial
on quarterly basis or do you manage that
actually have whole topics that you
planned out for the whole year how do
you work on that
speaking of 20 dishes in smaller
companies when i've managed content we
plan a year sometimes 18 months in
advance
i'm not surprised this quarter i'm
focusing on this this quarter i'm
focusing on that and you have a specific
theme associated with it
this quarter we're just gonna focus on
ribs that i'm apparently hungry for
dinner
sorry this quarter we're just doing
cornbread
enterprise companies especially
fast-moving enterprise companies like
salesforce you have to be a little
flexible you have to be
okay
we're going to cook a meaty dish but you
have to be flexible each quarter
depending on what that dish is you have
to make adjustment as you go yeah
exactly so now talk to us a little bit
in terms of content mix do you mix that
with the user's pinpoint
along with the products
and do you divided that by different
personas by industries how do you manage
a mix of topics and how do you get that
feedback from everybody
so i would say the mix comes from a lot
of research
so you need to understand of what you
currently have in the market what's
resonating with people what are people
clicking through what are they engaging
with what do they like most importantly
what are they not like how do you get
there that kind of data data data data
that's my favorite thing
data data
you go in and you look at your data
specifically so each channel has a
different goal and you want to see are
those channels hitting their goals
so if you're doing thought leadership
external the whole purpose of that is to
drive traffic to your website to drive
awareness to drive your name up in the
market is that happening
say you have like a how-to blog how do
you make the best cornbread there is you
want to make sure that people are
actually reading the entire blog so you
look at time on page you want to look at
the click-through rate are they going to
the next stage in the journey and you
also want to look at shareability
are they sharing it on social are they
clicking through to it from your
newsletter some of those metrics will
tell you how interested people are
really in with your content with that
being said because you generate tons of
content and how do you manage that to
actually keep track like every piece of
content that you are actually managing
it can be overwhelming right
it is overwhelming so we have a number
of systems in place we use a content
management system called proposed
everything is outlined in there right
now my team is actually going through
updating the workflows of that and
there's some workflows that have 75
steps can you imagine that that's just
overwhelmingly
stressful like there's 75 steps you have
to go through before a piece of content
is created or completed i assume that's
including approval process right and
that's one of the reasons why you do all
of the work beforehand because if you're
putting that much effort into something
it needs to be good and if you try to do
it just like oh let me just create this
and publish it
the juice is not worth the squeeze
so you really want to spend some of the
time
researching what are your competitors
doing
researching how something is working
researching
seo data are people searching for the
right type of answers that you're giving
or are you giving answers that no one
cares to hear about you spend a lot of
time doing research and the research has
a lot to do with planning can you also
talk to us about your planning stages in
terms of what are some of the
step-by-step process that you usually go
through
before you create your editorial so one
of the first steps is finding out what
is the need we usually tie this around
product so what products are launching
maybe the sales aren't doing that well
what are new features we're launching
and you tie that there and then you go
through and you're like okay if we're
talking about this product with this
feature
what content do we have that is in the
market right now
then i go through the research of
looking at
is this content actually working for us
is it doing what it needs to do
and at the same time i'll go through and
look at what are our competitors doing
and then i'll also do an seo audit
because i love search what kind of tool
do you use for seo so we use a
combination we use of course google tag
manager and then we use bright edge and
then we also use simrush
oh yeah that's a popular one my team of
writers uses semrush to both research
content come up with new titles and to
look at performance of content as
they're writing it and then we look at
it after the fact too a lot of time when
we write a blog we just write a blog and
we do a very minimal like seo search
like i do keyword search and i also do a
title search
but a lot of times based on my
experience of the specific topic either
i'm very passionate about or i basically
know some other b2b marketers encounter
similar issues but i didn't go through
that such extensive in-depth research
before i publish or write a blog post
and sounds like you guys do so much
homework before you determine what to
write
let me ask you a question
sure flip it on his head
okay
when you write content in that way and
you don't do that research you're like i
have a thought i'm going to share it
what are your results
there's always a stroke of luck as well
right there are some content when i
wrote even i wrote it out of my passion
or my know-how and i do minimal research
some of them actually perform very well
but some of them of course not
so i got mixed results but i do agree
with you i agree with you the 100 in
terms of doing research and doing your
homework before you start writing a
piece of content i think that's the
right way right way to go about it
but for me specifically sometimes i'm
just like passionate about certain
topics and i know it's so much about it
even though i know people don't search
that much like for example global
content that's to be honest the search
on the word global content it's very
minimal
but i know so much about it so i write
quite a bit of the content for it
and i know that it's not performing
compared with abm or sales enablement or
whatnot but i'm so passionate about so
sometimes i'm torn between that you know
should i write it for business reason or
should i write it for passion you know
what i'm saying so i hear you i hear you
you have a passion project of global
content
yep you go back and see
of the people who landed on that blog or
ebook
how did they come to your site do you
look at that yes i do and unfortunately
i cannot go by one by one i don't have
ipsniffer to actually find out who that
person is or which company they come
from so i look at more on the aggregate
type of data
majority of the data that has pointed to
me in terms of how they find me is
organic traffic they literally need to
type global content or they type pm
dinner it's very targeted when people
are searching certain type of keywords
it's literally they need that help
pretty much at that time
what i have noticed is the conversion
for that type of content it usually go
up and down quite a bit does that make
sense yeah
you asked about editorial planning part
of our editorial planning is we reserve
20 of our workload to optimize oh
i love that so we look at stuff of okay
we really wanted this to work but it's
not landing and then we do a deep dive
why is it not landing with our audience
so with that being said when you do a
deep dive do you go back and also change
and optimize rewrite the content as you
see fit it's a final draft but you do
another draft of it i'll give you an
example you asked about too many cooks
in the kitchen
we had a blog post specifically that
was aligned with a launch
had a lot of eyes on it probably more
than 20.
all the different opinions the messaging
got watered down
oh that is very typical i ran to that
situation multiple times when i was in
corporate that is actually i completely
understand everything you said and i
sympathize with that
some people come in and edit it to a way
that removed the storytelling aspect
immediately within the first day that
thing was a flop
within a week it was still flopping and
my execs were like why is this flopping
and i would push back and say let's give
it 30 days so that we have enough data
so after 30 days we redid it we took out
all the corporate jargon we added back
in the storytelling
we
simplified the content overall and our
bounce rate went from 93 percent within
the first 30 days to 70 percent it was
way too many cooks in the kitchen
and it's not delivering that
art piece or that centerpiece or even
that work well and you basically like
okay fine
now everybody get out or you look at a
piece of content one more time and you
think from your audience perspective
what they want to see and you rewrite it
the way you think what it should be but
we have that data because we knew from
the bounce rate being so high people
were coming the first couple of
paragraphs they were like i don't
understand this and they would leave
yeah so by adding the story back in it
resonated the bottom line is
you did drive some sort of consensus you
kind of that that blog just run its
course
and then you gather the data
and then you recorrected the course
in a way yeah exactly data is your
friend
that's the right way to go about it
sometimes so how often do you refresh
your content like i stated before we
reserve 20 of our time to refresh
content now
depending on the number of that 20
percent
that varies
sometimes we look at stuff and like
this was supposed to be a very prominent
piece of content it's not performing
let's spend all of our 20 just on that
one piece
other times we have stuff that's just
a little needs a little tweak twink just
a little tweak and so we'll spin that 20
with a number of pieces that just need
that little tweak maybe they need a new
title maybe the meta description isn't
right maybe the subhead isn't right
maybe the picture needs to be changed
but just those little tweaks can help
things perform better
we spend pretty much in the past like 20
20 30 minutes talking about just
editorial and talking about content
writing how do you optimize the content
and there's so much go into it and a lot
of executives or management they think
it's very easy well go ahead and finish
a blog post you should publish the blog
post seven days a week can you make this
funnel
exactly it's like magic you should make
that happen but it's not that easy
and you are just telling all of us how
hard and challenging and how in-depth
you can go about it in terms of the
content
so let me ask you another question so
how do you build your editorial team
given that there's so many kind of like
ins and outs that you have to think
through there you have to look at the
data you have to do seo you have to do
research so talk to us how do you build
your editorial team the editorial team
is built around different skill levels
and what you need so for our team the
way salesforce operates is we have a
content strategist
then we have editorial leads
then we have writers
all right
then we have agencies
agency into doing what agencies will
cross over from
video audio
creative writing creative development
and production okay got it
and then we work tangently
with
yeah go back we need another hand
yeah
customer marketing
customer created
oh my god evangelism which at salesforce
we call our trailblazer team okay
social
all right
pr okay
[Music]
ar
ah your kelly means should i use my feet
now
yeah use your feet i know you do yoga i
want to see those feet come up
and then we have all of our channel
specific owners but your own core team i
would say is the content strategist
editor the writer and also agency
without the core for mainly for written
content those are the core
so now i'm gonna go through the question
and you have to answer me in-house
versus outsource would i be okay yeah
all right in-house versus outsourced
decision
editor
in-house
creative
both
writing
social media
in-house
influencer
subject matter experts
in-house
oh wait
and exterior so both
okay seo
in-house
data analytics
definitely in-house
through all those talent
that's required to create a content i
think from your perspective there are
some which is kind of like can go either
way
like creative can be both
and then writing can be either way
social media can be the way subject
matter expert definitely agree with you
in-house
social media
in-house social media you think that's
in-house okay that's interesting and the
editor that definitely needs to be
in-house and the seo
you said that needs to be in-house as
well copywriting and a proofer that can
go either in or external
the way that we view editors is it's
almost like the editor of a magazine
it's someone who can see everything and
they can come in and say
okay let's tweak this let's tweak that
let's make this better similar to like
if you think about i'm going to hire an
editor for my book you might have all
the chapters of your book done and you
hand it to an editor and they make it
pretty that's outsourced yes yeah and
then they hand it to a proofer and the
proofer corrects all your grammar and
punctuation so you are basically saying
that hey to determine the in-house
versus outsource a lot of time you also
have to look at the skill set
what kind of job is performed then you
can determine that if you want to build
an in-house team or do you want to do a
combination of both or you want to
outsource that 100
and it's not only their skills it's the
amount of depth that they go into
proofreading you don't need much depth
on
the actual content
you need to have depth in grammar for an
editor to be able to frame that story
and tell it really well they need to
know the whole picture
of your product catalog and your
audience right
our editors speak for the customers
our editors i always ask them is like
how would the customer feel what would
the prospects read
put your head in their seat
not in the product market receipt but in
the customer's seat i like that a lot
you know it's actually a great
conversation with you to talk about
these topic in depth
anybody who is watching this video or
listening the podcast please subscribe
comment below as well talk to us share
your thoughts
if there's anything that i said or what
amy said that you think it resonates
with you let us know if there's anything
we need to add let us know as well
with that being said on a separate note
i would like to ask you i know
how long have we known each other
probably six or seven years you have
done many different jobs over a period
of time and a lot of them are great job
and they all within the content and also
editorial related role and you've been
to startup startup you've been to
established startup you've been on the
agency side and now you are actually on
the global enterprise with your wide
range of experience can you talk to some
of our listeners who are incredibly
young
do you have any specific marketing
advice that you can share with them
like what they should do what should
they not do should they always need to
go on the enterprise side does that make
sense do you have any thought on that it
depends on what you want to do
which is a very loaded question a lot of
them want to be vp
a lot of them want to be cmo in the long
term so if they have that kind of goal
in mind
what is your advice
cam i think you and i've spoken about
this the t theory
that's a long time ago i think we talked
about that can you also explain
or illustrate what p theory is if you
think about a t
the horizontal
is
every little thing you need to do
if you think about the vertical axis
that is going deep in a subject
so you are talking yeah some skill set
you will need doesn't matter what kind
of job you go to that's horizontal right
management skill for example leadership
skill that's horizontal like if you want
to tailor your
marketing expertise there for seo seo
that's like a vertical specific type of
skill set is that correct so if you want
to go higher to like a cmo it's
understanding how does demand gen work
how does awareness work for the vertical
like your vertical
is global you understand global
marketing really really well that's
where your
strong
yeah strong expertise
and i'm not saying one
to go broad or to go deep one is better
than the other but that would be the
biggest advice is to figure out
what do you want to go deep on and is
that where you want to hang your hat
and that comes back to the editorial
team all of my editors have different
t's
your advice is understand what your
career path will be or what you want to
be
and you want to dive in into a certain
expertise
of different marketing fields
and it can be seo it can be paid media
it can be social media it can be
whatever but try to determine that and
also there's a horizontal skill set that
you need to possess over a period of
time
and try to identify what that is as well
to be say effective manager and then
take it from there if we go back to the
small startup versus the big enterprise
yup and everything in between
the
small startups you're going to be that
horizontal you're tossing up many
different hats and wearing many
different roles right you have to go
back and forth you have to wear multiple
hats you have to do many different
things so a lot of the skill set that
will be developed during that time is
horizontal skills where the larger the
company the more your vertical access
comes into play so i love data i love
seo so
my team as opposed to some of the other
teams at salesforce we focus heavily
into seo because i love it so much but
it makes sense i mean that is so closely
tied to content
if you create content especially digital
content all day the seo plays a vital
vital role where i have other
counterparts who love podcasts they do
their tea they do really well at podcast
you know there's not a perfect answer
it's what gets you excited what gets you
up in the morning i think that's a great
way to answer that specific question
amy it's wonderful to have you to be on
my show so anybody who is listening or
listen to this podcast and you love it
please subscribe and comment below love
love love to hear from you so amy thank
you so much for coming really appreciate
it good group hi goodbye
vlogs bye
never miss an episode of b2b marketing
and more by following us here on youtube
and leave a comment while you're at it
you can also find episodes wherever you
get your podcasts
[Music]